Use first thought principle
->break it down and connect how its done


Day 1: Intro to JavaScript
Things I Learned Today
Why JavaScript was created — At the time, most programming languages had complex syntax. Web developers only knew HTML and CSS, and learning resources were very limited. JS was made to be easy and forgiving.

Security issue with C++ — Web devs didn't use C++ because it could access the system without permission. It could read private files or delete folders. JavaScript was created to run inside a safe "sandbox" with limited access (only keyboard and mouse — everything else needs permission).

Hardware limitations — Computers in the 1990s had only 4–6 MB of RAM. Other languages needed heavy compilers and runtimes. JS was made lightweight for the web.

How JavaScript runs — Browsers have C++ code inside them (called engines) that take JavaScript as input and show output on screen. Google's engine is called V8. It's already compiled to machine code, so JS doesn't need a separate compiler. Different systems have different machine code, but the engine handles that.

Running JS outside the browser — JS only runs in browsers because of engines like V8. To run JS in editors like VS Code, we need Node.js — an open-source, cross-platform runtime that lets JS run outside the browser.

1 Thing That Blew My Mind
JavaScript was created because C++ had security issues — but JS itself runs on a C++ engine (V8). They used C++ to make a safe sandbox that takes JS as input and gives output. That's genius.

Code I Wrote
js

Copy

Download
console.log('Hello World!');
What I'd Explain to a Beginner
JavaScript was made to make web pages interactive.

Back in the 1990s, developers built websites with only HTML and CSS. Other languages like C, C++, and Java existed — but why create JavaScript?

Reason 1 — Hardware: Computers had only 4–6 MB of RAM. Other languages needed heavy compilers and runtimes. JavaScript was designed to be lightweight.

Reason 2 — Complexity: HTML and CSS were easy and forgiving. If web developers saw C++ syntax back then with no learning resources, most would have quit. JS was made simple — even forgiving (no semicolons required).

Reason 3 — Security: C++ is a low-level language. It can access your system and manipulate files and folders. That's dangerous for the web. JavaScript was created with limited access — only keyboard and mouse. Anything else needs permission.

Reason 4 — Engines: JS is browser-based. Every browser has an engine (Google has V8) — C++ code already compiled to machine code — that takes JS as input and shows output.

Reason 5 — Node.js: There was still a problem: how to run JS outside the browser? Node.js was created — an open-source, cross-platform JavaScript runtime. Now we can run JS anywhere.

One Question I Still Have
V8 is written in C++ and compiled to machine code. Machine code is different for each system. Since machine code runs directly on the CPU without a compiler, could we create other "engines" (like V8) for different languages to run without compilers in editors like VS Code?

🔥 Bonus: Interpreter vs Compiler (what I understood)
Type	How it works
Interpreter	Line by line — reads line 1 → output, line 2 → output, error on line 3 → stops
Compiler	Reads entire code first — if no errors, converts everything to machine code at once